it is seen as a first legal test of arms
exports to Israel during its latest war
on Gaza three Dutch Charities and human
rights organization Say by supplying
spare parts of F35 fighter jets to
Israel's military the Netherlands
violates its obligation to protect
civilian populations but I think
everyone understand that the the bigger
message behind this is a political one
uh that the Netherlands that Europe that
the West cannot apply standards to this
one case compared to how they deal in
other cases like Ukraine or Yemen Israel
owns dozens of advanced F35 fighter jets
and according to the Dutch organizations
they play an important role in its war
on Gaza at least one shipment of spare
parts was sent from this Air Base in the
Netherlands since October 7 the base is
the European Regional hub for F35 spare
parts the Minister of Foreign Affairs
who decided Ed to continue the armed
shipment to Israel was not available to
respond to our questions nor was anyone
else representing the Dutch State its
lawyers argued in court that the f-35s
are essential for Israel's Regional
security and that by stopping the
supplies of spear Parts the Netherlands
risks its relationship with the United
States and Israel they also argue that
terminating their F-35 Supply contracts
can't be done easily lawyers for the
eight organizations
this hopefully other other lawyers and
other plaintiffs around the world will
follow Netanyahu has said from the first
moment we're able to do this we're
capable of doing this thanks to our
allies that provide us with the military
equipment by December 15 the judge will
decide if this Ally has to stop helping
Israel with spear parts of F35 fighter
jets step fast in Al jazer
the make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer